[ADD] Recruitment: Source analysis reporting (#10634)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/recruitment/source_analysis.rst

=========================
Source Analysis Reporting
=========================

Reporting is a critical tool for any recruiting department, to gain insights into the entire
recruitment process.

Determining where applicants come from can shed light on which sources provide the best results.
This information is determined by the *Source ANalysis* report. With this data, recruitment teams
can better pivot their recruiting strategies, in an attempt to gain better applicants, in both
quantity and quality.

Open report
===========

To access the *Source Analysis* report, navigate to :menuselection:`Recruitment app --> Reporting
--> Source Analysis`. This presents the data for the :icon:`fa-filter` :guilabel:`Last 365 Days
Applicant`, in a default :icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`Graph` view, showing the amount of
applicants by :guilabel:`Source`, and further separated by stage (:guilabel:`In Progress` and
:guilabel:`Hired`). Hover the cursor over any column to view the specific numbers fort that column.

.. image:: source_analysis/source-analysis.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The default bar chart of the source analysis information.

> Pivot Table

Author: I love this suggestion, and really appreciate the feedback!

for each source, as well as for each stage by job position.

Medium
------

Sometimes, further information is desired to gain a more complete insight as to the complete source
of applicants. Viewing the medium for the applicants can be beneficial to see which specific medium
is more successful.

To further group the results by medium, click into a row beneath the :icon:`fa-minus-square-o`
:guilabel:`Total` box. Click :guilabel:`Medium` in the resulting drop-down menu. The row presents
the specific mediums, relevant to that specific source.

Once :guilabel:`Medium` is selected for one source, clicking into another row automatically reveals
the specific metrics for the mediums for that source.

.. image:: source_analysis/medium.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The sources rows, expanded to also show the medium for each source.

.. note::
   The only mediums that appear for a source, are mediums that have been selected on an applicant's
   form. If a medium has **not** been selected for any applicants, the medium **does not appear** in
   the drop-down rows beneath the source.

   For example, if no applicant's selected the medium :guilabel:`Google Adwords`, that medium does

>    **not** appear beneath the :guilabel:`Search engine` source row.

Reviewer: This document has enough as is, but since I'm reviewing, I just wanted to help brainstorm some ideas for other use cases you can add to this doc in a follow-up PR for 2 points :blush: 

1. Candidate engagement report: Analyzing where candidates drop out of the application process for each source.
  Idea to generate this report (feel free to explore and poke around to improve this! I was just having fun exploring the report you introduced me to :smile:)
  
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2eda863f-5b83-4a0a-8be0-c1cf4f565c0a)

(I'm not sure how to do this, as it looks like we can't get the stage names from each process to appear. Only "In progress/Hired. Maybe you'll figure out a workaround?)

2. Time to Hire report: Measuring how long it takes to fill a position from each source. 
  Not super sure how to make this appear, but there's a "Process Duration" measure. Maybe you can look more into this? There's also a "# of Meetings" measure!
  
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/05bec4f5-b42d-4321-8e87-087d7c426095)

3. Referral success rate: analyze how much better candidates with referrals perform compared to regular hires
  using the measures (:

4. Application to hire ratio:  Understanding how many applications from each source result in a hire.
 just the measure in the report (easiest one!)

Author: THANK YOU!!! I have SUCH a hard time trying to make these reports give me the information I a looking for. I use chat gpt, I play around with the reporting measures and features, and I still get stuck. It's funny, I know what kind of information I want to see, but I cannot figure out how to get that information to be shown =D 

I will absolutely expand on this! I have another recruitment reporting doc being written now, but also wrestling with how the information is gathered and shown. I would love for you to review that doc as well since you did such a great job with this one!

=========================
Source analysis reporting
=========================

Reporting is a critical tool for any recruiting department, to gain insights into the entire
recruitment process.

> Determining where applicants come from can inform on which sources provide the best results. This

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Determining where applicants come from can provide information about which sources have the best results. This
```

information is determined by the *Source Analysis* report. With this data, recruitment teams can

> better pivot their recruiting strategies, in an attempt to gain better applicants, in both quantity

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
better pivot their recruiting strategies to gain better applicants, in both quantity
```

and quality.

Open report
===========

> To access the *Source Analysis* report, navigate to :menuselection:`Recruitment app --> Reporting
> --> Source Analysis`. This presents the data for the :icon:`fa-filter` :guilabel:`Last 365 Days
> Applicant`, in a default :icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`Graph` view, showing the amount of
> applicants by :guilabel:`Source`, and further separated by stage (:guilabel:`In Progress` and
> :guilabel:`Hired`). Hover the cursor over any column to view the specific numbers fort that column.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To access the *Source Analysis* report, navigate to :menuselection:`Recruitment app --> Reporting
--> Source Analysis`. 

This presents the data for the :icon:`fa-filter` :guilabel:`Last 365 Days Applicant`, in a default
:icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`Graph` view, showing the amount of applicants by :guilabel:`Source`,
and further separated by stage (:guilabel:`In Progress` and :guilabel:`Hired`).

Hover the cursor over any column to view the specific numbers for that column.
```
OPTIONAL way to break up this otherwise "lengthy" paragraph

.. image:: source_analysis/source-analysis.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The default bar chart of the source analysis information.

> To view more details, view the :guilabel:`Source Analysis` report in a pivot table. While on the
> :guilabel:`Source Analysis` report page, click the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`Pivot` icon in
> the top-right corner. The data is presented in a pivot table, with rows populated by job position,
> and columns populated stage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view more details, view the :guilabel:`Source Analysis` report in a pivot table. To do so, click the
:icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`Pivot` icon in the top-right corner. The data is presented in a pivot table,
with rows populated by job positions, and columns populated by stages.
```

Source effectiveness report
===========================

To identify which sources (e.g., job boards, social media, employee referrals, company website)
produce the most hires, the pivot table view of the :guilabel:`Source Analysis` report can be
configured to display further details.

To expand this chart to show what specific sources the applicants came from, click the

> :icon:`fa-plus-square` :guilabel:`Total` box, above the columns to reveal a drop-down menu, and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:icon:`fa-plus-square` :guilabel:`Total` box above the columns, to reveal a drop-down menu, and
```

click :guilabel:`Source`.

> Now, each column is grouped by the source, such as: `Search engine`, `Facebook`, `Newsletter`, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each column is then grouped by the source, such as: Search engine, Facebook, Newsletter, etc.
```

> Each source displays the separate count for :guilabel:`Applicant`, :guilabel:`Hired`, and
> :guilabel:`Refused`, for each source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each source displays a separate count for :guilabel:`Applicant`, :guilabel:`Hired`, and
:guilabel:`Refused`.
```

> This information as presented makes it difficult to view the specific numbers for each source. Click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This information, as presented, makes it difficult to view the specific numbers for each source. Click
```

the :icon:`fa-exchange` :guilabel:`(Flip axis)` icon, to swap the information. After that, the rows
represent the source, and the columns represent the job positions, further divided by stage.

.. image:: source_analysis/source-pivot.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The axes flipped in the source analysis report, in pivot table view.

In this view, the total number of applicants, hired employees, and refused applicants, are displayed
for each source, as well as for each stage by job position.

Medium
------

> Sometimes, further information is desired to gain a more complete insight as to the complete source
> of applicants. Viewing the medium for the applicants can be beneficial to see which specific medium
> is more successful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Viewing the medium for the applicants can be beneficial to see which specific medium is more successful.
```

Reviewer 2: It might be beneficial to briefly explain what a *Medium* is before launching into this example...

To further group the results by medium, click into a row beneath the :icon:`fa-minus-square-o`
:guilabel:`Total` box. Click :guilabel:`Medium` in the resulting drop-down menu. The row presents
the specific mediums, relevant to that specific source.

Once :guilabel:`Medium` is selected for one source, clicking into another row automatically reveals
the specific metrics for the mediums for that source.

.. image:: source_analysis/medium.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The sources rows, expanded to also show the medium for each source.

.. note::
   The only mediums that appear for a source, are mediums that have been selected on an applicant's

>    form. If a medium has **not** been selected for any applicants, the medium **does not appear** in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   form. If a medium has **not** been selected for any applicants, the medium does not appear in
```

   the drop-down rows beneath the source.

>    For example, if no applicant's selected the medium :guilabel:`Google Adwords`, that medium does

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For example, if no applicants selected the medium *Google Adwords*, that medium does
```
opting for italics here because this isn't being shown on the screen, specifically

>    **not** appear beneath the :guilabel:`Search engine` source row.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   **not** appear beneath the *Search engine* source row.
```
opting for italics here, as well, for the same reason mentioned above...

=========================
Source analysis reporting
=========================

Reporting is a critical tool used by recruiting departments to gain insights into the entire
recruitment process.

Determining where applicants come from can provide information about which sources have the best
results. This information is determined by the *Source Analysis* report. With this data, recruitment
teams can better pivot their recruiting strategies to gain better applicants, in both quantity and
quality.

Open report
===========

To access the *Source Analysis* report, navigate to :menuselection:`Recruitment app --> Reporting
--> Source Analysis`.

This presents the data for the :icon:`fa-filter` :guilabel:`Last 365 Days Applicant`, in a default
:icon:`fa-area-chart` :guilabel:`(Graph)` view, showing the amount of applicants by
:guilabel:`Source`, and further separated by stage (:guilabel:`In Progress` and :guilabel:`Hired`)

> Hover the cursor over any column to view the specific numbers fort that column.

Reviewer 3: Quick typo fix :)
```suggestion
Hover the cursor over any column to view the specific numbers for that column.
```

.. image:: source_analysis/source-analysis.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: The default bar chart of the source analysis information.

Reviewer 3: I'd like to see this image retaken with more zoom, since the text is currently illegible 🙏

> To view more details, view the :guilabel:`Source Analysis` report in a pivot table. To do so, click
> the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(Pivot)` icon in the top-right corner. The data is presented in
> a pivot table, with rows populated by job positions, and columns populated stages.
> 
> Source effectiveness report
> ===========================
> 
> To identify which sources (e.g., job boards, social media, employee referrals, company website)
> produce the most hires, the pivot table view of the :guilabel:`Source Analysis` report can be
> configured to display further details.
> 

Reviewer 3: Suggestion to move the Pivot view instruction below the section that directs the user to opening Pivot view :)
```suggestion

Source effectiveness report
===========================

To identify which sources (e.g., job boards, social media, employee referrals, company website)
produce the most hires, the pivot table view of the :guilabel:`Source Analysis` report can be
configured to display further details.

To do so, click the :icon:`oi-view-pivot` :guilabel:`(Pivot)` icon in the top-right corner. The data
is presented in a pivot table, with rows populated by job positions, and columns populated stages.
```

To expand this chart to show what specific sources the applicants came from, click the
:icon:`fa-plus-square` :guilabel:`Total` box above the columns, to reveal a drop-down menu, and
click :guilabel:`Source`.

> Each column is then grouped by the source, such as: Search engine, Facebook, Newsletter, etc. Each
> source displays a separate count for :guilabel:`Applicant`, :guilabel:`Hired`, and
> :guilabel:`Refused`.

Reviewer 3: A bit of a gray area, since these sources are dynamic and can change per DB– but I think they should be in guilabels
```suggestion
Each column is then grouped by the source, such as: :guilabel:`Search engine`, :guilabel:`Facebook`,
:guilabel:`Newsletter`, etc. Each source displays a separate count for :guilabel:`Applicant`,
:guilabel:`Hired`, and :guilabel:`Refused`.
```

Author: Lol, that was my original thought, haha. Glad to know my instincts were good =D

This information, as presented, makes it difficult to view the specific numbers for each source.
Click the :icon:`fa-exchange` :guilabel:`(Flip axis)` icon, to swap the information. After that, the
rows represent the source, and the columns represent the job positions, further divided by stage.

.. image:: source_analysis/source-pivot.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The axes flipped in the source analysis report, in pivot table view.

In this view, the total number of applicants, hired employees, and refused applicants, are displayed
for each source, as well as for each stage by job position.

Medium
------

> Sometimes, further information is desired to gain a more complete insight as to the complete source
> of applicants. Viewing the medium for the applicants can be beneficial to see which specific medium
> is more successful.

Reviewer 3: I agree with KSC's suggestion here. The first part of this paragraph is quite long-winded and a little confusing. I think keeping it direct is the best approach here :)
```suggestion
Viewing the medium for the applicants can be beneficial to see which specific medium is more
successful.
```

*Mediums* are the specific methods the applicant used to discover and then apply for job positions,

> such as a search engine, LinkedIn, or a banner ad.

Reviewer 3: These are sources, mediums would be the categories of a search engine, platform, or ad :)
```suggestion
such as a organic search, paid search, social media ad, email, etc.
```

> To further group the results by medium, click into a row beneath the :icon:`fa-minus-square-o`
> :guilabel:`Total` box. Click :guilabel:`Medium` in the resulting drop-down menu. The row presents
> the specific mediums, relevant to that specific source.

Reviewer 3: Slight suggestion for skimability–

I think by saying click the row below the - Total icon, may be missed if reading quickly, and users would click on the - Total row, which would collapse their sources.

I recommend instructing to click on the + [Source] instead :)
```suggestion
To further group the results by medium, click into one of the :icon:`fa-plus-square`
:guilabel:`[Source]` rows. Click :guilabel:`Medium` in the resulting drop-down menu. The row
presents the specific mediums, relevant to that specific source.
```

Once :guilabel:`Medium` is selected for one source, clicking into another row automatically reveals
the specific metrics for the mediums for that source.

.. image:: source_analysis/medium.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The sources rows, expanded to also show the medium for each source.

.. note::

>    The only mediums that appear for a source, are mediums that have been selected on an applicant's
>    form. If a medium has **not** been selected for any applicants, the medium does not appear in
>    the drop-down rows beneath the source.

Reviewer 3: Often these UTM fields will be set automatically via a tracked link or other means, so I suggest stating "set" instead "selected". Up to you!
```suggestion
   The only mediums that appear for a source, are mediums that have been set on an applicant's form.
   If a medium has **not** been set for any applicants, the medium does not appear in the drop-down
   rows beneath the source.
```
